Hi there.
This is the model group.
Now it's time to look at tasks that need to be executed within a certain time limit.
Sometimes the task may not have any time limits at all, but certain applications might have strict
time limits on execution of the task.
And so the task should not take more than the specified time.
For instance, it's common to have web applications displaying advertisements from different partners.
In this case, it's typical to fetch those advertisements concurrently, and these advertisements need
to be displayed within a second or two for best user experience.
And if a task is taking more than the specified time in fetching an advertisement from a partner, then
we need to suspend that task.
So placing time limits on tasks is very important and more than web applications.
Earlier we looked at this definition of future, and we also discussed briefly about the time method,
which is the last method here.
This method waits for at most the specified amount of time for the task to complete, and it will throw
a timeout exception if specified time elapses and the task is not yet completed.
In the catch bloc of climate exception.
We can invoke the cancel method that we see here on the same future instance so that the underlying
task would be cancelled, thus saving some resources.
Similar to time get alternatively executed.
Service also has a method called Invoke which takes a collection of callable tasks along with the timeout
information and returns a collection of corresponding future objects.
So it takes a collection of callable tasks and returns a collection of corresponding future objects.
So for each task there will be a corresponding future object.
And this method, like the get method in the future instance, also blocks until either all submitted
tasks complete or timeout expires, whichever happens first.
But if timeout expires, then any incomplete task will be cancelled and that's taken care of implicitly
by the invoke all method itself.
So for a returned future instance, you can invoke get method after checking that it was not cancelled
via the IS cancelled method in the future instance.
So while submit method an execute or service returns a single future instance invoke all can return
more than one future instance depending on the number of tasks submitted.
Now let's go ahead and do a quick demo and we will look at both time get as well as time to invoke all
from execute or service.
Okay.
First, let's look at the time to get approach and later we can look at the in work all approach from
executed service.
So for time get I have created this new class called as future time get indexer and and this has been
added in the indexer sub package concurrent index or sub package.
And it's just an improvement over future indexer, which we have seen in the last demo.
So in the last demo we looked at future indexer with the task, did not have any time limits, but now
the task will have time limits.
And so this is a future indexer.
So everything is same.
The downloader task will still implement callable and the indexer thread is still there.
So index to task is there.
The only difference is here in the last demo I mentioned about this.
So once the downloader tasks are submitted to the downloader executor via the submit method, each invocation
will return a future instance which is added to an array list of features.
And then we are iterating through the list of futures and executing the indexers, the indexer executor.
And here we are invoking the get method.
And I mentioned that if we do this, then a future in a particular iteration can block because the method
can block.
And because of that, subsequent iterations have to wait.
They will not happen, so they have to wait.
So I suggested that instead of invoking the get here, we would just pass the future instance to the
Indexer constructor.
And that way in this iterations will complete and all of these tasks will be in the queue of this particular
executor, and they will be picked up by the threads and the thread pull of this executor.
And those threads will work concurrently.
So the even if the get method blocks, then it will not have any impact on the other threads on the
other indexer.
So that's what I suggested.
So that's an improvement that we are making here.
So let's go here.
Future time get indexer.
So everything else is same here.
So in the go method.
Now instead of invoking the future dot get we are passing future.
But then we are also passing some time information here.
So here is the time.
We are calling it as end time.
So right before we are invoking the we are starting the downloading process itself.
So we are measuring the time here.
So it's we are getting the current time in nanoseconds and we are adding a time frame.
So this is the time budget.
It's the time frame and it's 2 seconds in this case.
So we're here, it's 2 seconds.
It's also expressed in nanoseconds.
So within 2 seconds, the downloading has to complete.
All of the web links have to be downloaded.
So we are adding this.
So end time is the end time, the current time plus plus 2 seconds and it everything has to finish before
that.
So we are passing the end time to the indexer here.
So that's the Indexer constructor has been changed now.
Earlier it was taking only web link.
Now it takes time as well as this future instance.
And in the run method.
Here we are first computing the time left because the time left is what we are going to pass to the
get method here.
So this is the time get and we will be passing the time left and within that time period the task in
this future corresponds to some task and that particular task.
The download task has to finish, its task has to finish its computation.
If not a timeout exception will be generated.
So that's why we have an additional catch block here.
So the the time left is nothing but end time and time, which is past minus the current time.
So whatever time is that so minus the current time.
So the left over time is what is being passed here and the time unit is nanoseconds.
And within that, if it finishes, then we get the web link right, because the column method will return
a web link, the call method that the downloader task has implemented.
Download task is a callable and then from the web link we are getting the we are invoking the HTML page
and we get the HTML page.
But if a timeout exception is generated, then we are coming here and we are canceling that particular
task.
So we are invoking the cancel method on the on the future itself and we are passing it through, which
means that it can if if the task is still executing, it can try to interrupt it.
It doesn't mean that it's going to definitely work out, but at least it's trying to invoke it because
there needs to be the logic.
The logic should be there to respond to the interrupt, but at least we are making an attempt to do
that.
So that's it.
So let me just go ahead and run this.
Here it is.
Okay.
As you can see, only one task could finish within 2 seconds and it has been indexed, but the other
three tasks have could not finish and the timeout exception was generated.
And here we are saying that task is canceled.
So that's the time get.
Now let's look at the invoke all method approach.
So for this, I created this new class called timed invoke all indexer in the same indexer sub package
and we are still using the time frame here.
So the download task is still the same.
It implements callable.
An indexer is going to be the old indexer, not the one which we saw here in the future.
Timed.
Get indexer.
We don't need that.
So we are still using the old indexer and it implements a table and the changes made in the go method
here.
So once again, we have the end time and we are adding the time frame to the nano time to the current
time.
So it will be 2 seconds will be added to the current time and invoke all is here to the invoke all method.
We submit a list of collection of downloader tasks and it will return a collection of features.
So this features is here list of features and list of downloader tasks as here and the way we are populating
it, as we are simply iterating through the list of web links here.
And we are we are passing that web link to the downloader to the downloader instance and downloader
is a callable, so this task is nothing but a list of colobus.
Right.
We already mentioned discuss that earlier.
And that said we are passing this and it's returning a list of features and these features each feature
it must have completed or it must have been canceled.
Right.
So if it is if it is not canceled, so we are invoking is canceled method here, then we are passing
the we are invoking the get method here.
And this will not block because it's completed and it would return a web link.
But if it is canceled, then we are simply printing the message.
The task is canceled.
So let me just go ahead and run this also.
So here are two tasks have been cancelled and two of them have been have completed successfully and
we have indexed them.
So that's about it.
So this one, I think this approach is more cleaner in work all because it is very explicit here.
We are explicitly saying here.
And the second thing is, if we use the time to get, there is a chance that the programmer can make
a mistake, like in the sense the programmer can actually implement a time to get in this way, right
in this way, where the future don't get you know, this is a future indexed program.
We already discussed that.
So the get would block and then it would block and the subsequent iterations cannot cannot execute until
this until this block, until the get method returns.
So that would be one one issue, one programming error that can happen if we use a timed gate.
And the second thing is with the timed get and timeout, exception can be generated.
And if it is generated, then we might want to cancel it.
And this we have to do it explicitly but with time to invoke all.
So there is no such timeout exception and that invoke all method automatically cancels it.
So in this case we might actually forget to invoke this method to.
It's where it can happen.
Definitely it might happen.
But with this we don't have to deal with it because invoke call is taking care of that.
So for me I think I personally prefer this approach using the invoke all.
So that's about it.
Although we are invoking the cancel method, but I think it's still better than having a catch block.
So that's it.
And both the classes are available in the resources section and thank you and happy coding.